# Response to Blumenstock - Don't forget abut humans in data for development

What are some promises and pitfalls associated with data science and human development?

Blumenstock states that the population of people with cell phones is skyrocketing all over the world. With the amount of data produced by cell phones, this "Big Data" could be used for the better to assist in human development. Whether that be through satellite images, algorithms, or analyses of digital footprints, human development could benefit from this great increase in technology. Publlic data maps are now being used to view low developed areas to pinpoint exactly where funds should be donated. Certain ad algorithms, goodle's for example, could have the ability to be tweaked to detect which resources would be needed for people in poverty. And lastly, the digital footprints of users could be used in cases of natural disasters to locate areas of needed assistance. However, while there is the potential for lots of good to come from this, there are also a few set backs as well.

With technology being expensive, the data that is being retrieved is mainly from wealthier individuals who can afford phones. This causes the data to be slightly biased and maybe not represent completely accurate information. Additionally, people are now starting to detect that companies are giving out funds due to satellite images of homes, causing people to change the appearance of where they live to receive money. Finally, there is a lack of constant regulation with the use of big data. Many of the big decisions made towards human development are made by private companies whose only goal is to increase their company's profits. All of these factors could potentially harm the goal of human development through the big data gathered.

As for responding to my classmates, I agree with the statement that good intent is not enough. Having the right mindset and wanting to do good isn't enough to produce good results. You must have the correct resources, team, and support in order to make human development happen. You can't just want to "do good." Secondly, I agree that transparency is key. It is very easy to lie and cheat the system to get help when it is needed elsewhere, and more honesty would improve the results of human development greatly. If the data retreieved was 100% correct and the human based issues were also 100% correct, then perhaps it would take a much shorter time to assist where it is needed. Lastly, I also agree that the "balancing act" can become difficult. With technology constantly growing and changing and humans also constantly growing and changing, taking this data and trying to put it to good use can be very difficult. Balacing out all of the factors is an extremely hard task. 
